This directory contains scripts useful for extracting the hit thresholds from configuration files, calculating the correction to Garfield's drift time tables due to the magnetic field, estimating the time to distance calibration parameters from EPICS data, checking the monitoring histograms, and identifying quiet\/noisy channels.

# Finding the hit thresholds 

This requires the run configuration files, either in the RunLog tar file stored on tape with the evio files, or on the gluons, in /gluex/CALIB/ALL/fadc125/.  Their filenames follow the pattern roccdc1something.cnf.

The scripts are in the subdirectory hit\_thresholds.

geth.C extracts the thresholds from the configuration files and writes them into a simple table suitable for CCDB.
CDC\_straw\_numbers\_run\_3221.txt is a reference table used by geth.C

geth.C creates the following file:
- cdc\_h.txt  This is a list of the thresholds, ordered by straw number


**To extract the thresholds:**

1. Make a new directory and cd into it
2. Copy geth.C, CDC\_straw\_numbers\_run\_3221.txt and the configuration files into this directory.  
3. Edit the configuration filename in the script, line 65.
4. Run the script 
```sh
root -q geth.C 
```
5. Load the data into CCDB, eg
```sh
ccdb add /CDC/hit_thresholds -r 71860-72435 cdc_h.txt
```


# Calculating the correction to Garfield's drift time tables for the magnetic field

The process is documented in [GlueX-doc-2592](https://halldweb.jlab.org/doc-private/DocDB/ShowDocument?docid=2592) and [2513](https://halldweb.jlab.org/doc-private/DocDB/ShowDocument?docid=2513).
The script is in the subdirectory Bfield\_drift\_correction.

**To find the correction function:**

1. Obtain the magnetic field map as a root tree, using the program bfield2root in src/programs/Utilities

2. Scan the tree to find the range of Bz in the CDC volume 

```sh
Bfield->Scan("Bz:r:z","Bz<1.25&&z>=15&&z<=170&&r>=5&&r<=65")
Bfield->Scan("Bz:r:z","Bz>1.92&&z>=15&&z<=170&&r>=5&&r<=65")
```

3. Generate Garfield time-to-distance tables to cover the range of Bz, at 0.05T intervals 

4. Edit the script Bfield\_dt2.C as necessary and run it.  
```sh
root -q Bfield_dt2.C
```

5. Add the fit parameters obtained to the CCDB table /CDC/cdc\_drift\_parms.


# Estimating time to distance parameters from EPICS data

The script is located in the subdirectory calc\_ttod.  It uses the functions from [GlueX-doc-5394](https://halldweb.jlab.org/doc-private/DocDB/ShowDocument?docid=5394) to estimate the time to distance parameters (for CCDB /CDC/drift\_parameters) for 2125V runs using EPICS data for temperature and pressure.

**To find the time to distance parameters:**

1. Obtain the EPICS data for the time of interest.  The names of the EPICS variables are:
```
RESET:i:GasPanelBarPress1
GAS:i::CDC_Temps-CDC_D1_Temp
GAS:i::CDC_Temps-CDC_D3_Temp
GAS:i::CDC_Temps-CDC_D4_Temp
GAS:i::CDC_Temps-CDC_D5_Temp
```

2. Run the script, providing as arguments the run number (used in the output filename), uncalibrated pressure and the downstream thermocouple temps D1 and D3 to D5.  This should generate an output file in the correct format for the CCDB table.  The example below created the file ttod\_d10370.txt.

```
root -q "calc_ttod_from_epics.C(10370,99.8644,25.6996,25.8,25.9009,25.3)"
```

# Checking the monitoring histograms

The scripts are located in the subdirectory monitoring. 

- inspect\_rootfile.C is a root script that checks the histograms in the current root file. 
- checkhistos.py loops over a directory of root files. It calls inspect\_rootfile.C for each one, and concatenates the output into a new file check.out. Look in the file for command line options. 
```
python ../../checkfiles.py /cache/halld/offline_monitoring/RunPeriod-2021-08/ver08/hists/hists_merged
```
- recalc\_gain.py looks up the gain correction factor for a given run in CCDB and uses the supplied dE/dx to calculate a new gain correction factor, which is written into newgain\_\[run\_number\].txt
```
python recalc_gain.py 81555 1.9708
```
- grabcdchistos.C extracts CDC\-specific histograms from monitoring plugin output.
- sumcdchistos.py loops over a directory of monitoring/calibration histograms to run grabcdchistos.C for each file and sum the files for each run. It expects a file structure like hists/Run100743/hd\_calib\_final\_Run100743\_023.root 

# Identifying quiet and\/or noisy channels

The script is located in the subdirectory check_occupancy.

- check_occ.C is a root script that scans the histogram cdc_o generated by the plugin CDC_online and generates a list of straws that have more or less hits than the average for the ring. The argument supplied (default 2) specifies the tolerance factor. 
- CDC_straw_numbers_run_3221.txt is a text file containing the CDC's channel mapping. It is expected to be in the same directory as the script. 
```
root -q hd_root_110881_001.root "check_occ.C(3.0)"
```